pages/how-to-mods.mdx, before:

import MdxLayoutComponent from '../components/MdxLayoutComponent'

# What is a Mod
- Melody Mania can be extended with custom code that can be used to modify (mod) the game.
- A folder with such custom code is called a *mod folder* or short *mod*.

### How to Install Mods
- Mod folders are searched in a specific folder called the *mods root folder*.
- The mods root folder can be found by executing the command `mod.path` in the game's console (open via `F7`).
- To install a mod folder, copy it to the mods root folder. An app restart may be required afterwards.

# How to Develop Mods
- Mod development for Melody Mania means C# programming.
- This can be done with [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
and the [C# Dev Kit](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csdevkit)
that provides IDE features such as code completion, error markers, parameter hints, go to definition, etc.

### Mod Interfaces
- A mod needs to implement certain C# interfaces that are instantiated by the game.
- Available interfaces for mods can be found by executing `mod.interfaces` in the game's console.

### Create a New Mod
- Press `F7` to open the game's console
- Execute the command `mod.create MyModName` in the console.
    - This will create a new example mod with the given name.
- Open the created mod folder in Visual Studio Code. Install C# Dev Kit if not done already.
- Write C# code as needed.

### Troubleshooting Hints
- Disable other mods while working on a new mod.
- Make sure C# Dev Kit and the C# project are loaded correctly.
    - Try to write something that is known to fail, e.g., `ThisIsWrong()` and check that an error marker appears as expected.
- Make sure that there are no error markers in the IDE
    - Only a mod without errors will load properly in the game.
- Make sure `modinfo.json` specifies all required libraries in the `requires` field.
    - This is needed because not all of the app domain (i.e. loaded libraries) is exposed to mods by default.
- Use `UnityEngine.Debug.Log` to write information to the game's console.
- Try to restart the app and see if errors are still present.

### The .csproj file
- The `.csproj` file holds information about the C# project structure of the mod.
- This file tells the IDE which C# libraries (DLL files) are available.
    - The file should point to the DLL files that are shipped with the game,
      plus the DLL files in the mod folder itself.
- This file is used only by the IDE, not by the game.

### The modinfo.json file
- Information about the mod such as its name, description, and version should be specified in the file `modinfo.json`.
- The information from `modinfo.json` can be accessed by the user in the game without enabling the mod.

### Mod Loading
- Mods are loaded in alphabetical order.
- Enabled mod are loaded after
    - the game starts
    - a mod becomes enabled
- Instances of classes from mods are created only after all enabled mods have been loaded

### Script Loading Order
- First, DLL files in the mod folder are loaded in alphabetical order.
- Second, C# files in the mod folder are loaded in alphabetical order.
- Thus, you can change the load order of your scripts be naming them accordingly, e.g., with a letter prefix.
    - Example: `a-MyCoolFile.cs` would be loaded before `b-MyAwesomeFile.cs`

export default ({ children }) => (
    <MdxLayoutComponent>{children}</MdxLayoutComponent>
);

Commit message:

how-to-mods: note about script order and modsettings.json

pages/how-to-mods.mdx, after:

import MdxLayoutComponent from '../components/MdxLayoutComponent'

# What is a Mod
- Melody Mania can be extended with custom code that can be used to modify (mod) the game.
- A folder with such custom code is called a *mod folder* or short *mod*.

### How to Install Mods
- Mod folders are searched in a specific folder called the *mods root folder*.
- The mods root folder can be found by executing the command `mod.path` in the game's console (open via `F7`).
- To install a mod folder, copy it to the mods root folder. An app restart may be required afterwards.

# How to Develop Mods
- Mod development for Melody Mania means C# programming.
- This can be done with [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
and the [C# Dev Kit](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csdevkit)
that provides IDE features such as code completion, error markers, parameter hints, go to definition, etc.

### Mod Interfaces
- A mod needs to implement certain C# interfaces that are instantiated by the game.
- Available interfaces for mods can be found by executing `mod.interfaces` in the game's console.

### Create a New Mod
- Press `F7` to open the game's console
- Execute the command `mod.create MyModName` in the console.
    - This will create a new example mod with the given name.
- Open the created mod folder in Visual Studio Code. Install C# Dev Kit if not done already.
- Write C# code as needed.

### Troubleshooting Hints
- Disable other mods while working on a new mod.
- Make sure C# Dev Kit and the C# project are loaded correctly.
    - Try to write something that is known to fail, e.g., `ThisIsWrong()` and check that an error marker appears as expected.
- Make sure that there are no error markers in the IDE
    - Only a mod without errors will load properly in the game.
- Make sure the dependencies of your scripts match their load order.
    - Scripts of a mod are loaded in alphabetical order.
- Make sure `modinfo.json` specifies all required libraries in the `requires` field.
    - This is needed because not all of the app domain (i.e. loaded libraries) is exposed to mods by default.
- Use `UnityEngine.Debug.Log` to write information to the game's console.
- Try to restart the app and see if errors are still present.

### The .csproj file
- The `.csproj` file holds information about the C# project structure of the mod.
- This file tells the IDE which C# libraries (DLL files) are available.
    - The file should point to the DLL files that are shipped with the game,
      plus the DLL files in the mod folder itself.
- This file is used only by the IDE, not by the game.

### The modinfo.json file
- Information about the mod such as its name, description, and version should be specified in the file `modinfo.json`.
- The information from `modinfo.json` can be accessed by the user in the game without enabling the mod.

### The modsettings.json file
- Instances of `IModSettings` are saved and loaded from the file `modsettings.json` of their corresponding mod folder.
- There should only be a single IModSettings implementation per mod.

### Mod Loading
- Mods are loaded in alphabetical order.
- Enabled mod are loaded after
    - the game starts
    - a mod becomes enabled
- Instances of classes from mods are created only after all enabled mods have been loaded

### Script Loading Order
- First, DLL files in the mod folder are loaded in alphabetical order.
- Second, C# files in the mod folder are loaded in alphabetical order.
- Thus, you can change the load order of your scripts be naming them accordingly, e.g., with a letter prefix.
    - Example: `a-MyCoolFile.cs` would be loaded before `b-MyAwesomeFile.cs`

export default ({ children }) => (
    <MdxLayoutComponent>{children}</MdxLayoutComponent>
);
