pages/how-to-song-editor.mdx, before:

import MdxLayoutComponent from '../components/MdxLayoutComponent'
import TutorialVideo from '../components/TutorialVideo'

# Song Editor
Melody Mania includes an editor that can be used to create a sing-along version of any song.

The following shows how to use the editor.


## View Shortcuts and Controls
- The help dialog shows all available shortcuts and controls
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/view-controls-help.webm" />


## Split Audio to Isolate Vocals
- Click the button in the left side bar to split vocals audio and instrumental audio
- Afterwards, speech recognition and pitch detection can be performed on the vocals audio
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/split-audio.webm" />


## Change Playback Audio
- You can select which audio should be played: the original music, vocals, insturmental, or your microphone recording
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/change-playback-audio.webm" />


## Dictate Lyrics
- Configure a microphone and click the recording button
- Speak clearly in the microphone to dictate lyrics
- TIP: More speech recognition models are available for download [here](https://huggingface.co/ggerganov/whisper.cpp). As a rule of thumb, larger models are more accurate but need more time.
- TIP: Your recorded audio is shown in red in the overview bar at the bottom
- NOTE: The speech recognition models have not been trained on singing data. Thus, you may achieve better results by dictating lyrics and speaking clearly, without singing.
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/dictate-lyrics.webm" />


## Speech Recognition in Selection
- As alternative to dictating lyrics, you can run the speech recognition on the vocals audio
- Select a range or hit `Ctrl+A` to select all
- Click the button in the settings to do speech recognition on the last selected range
- NOTE: The speech recognition models have not been trained on singing data. Thus, you may achieve better results by dictating lyrics and speaking clearly, without singing.
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/speech-recognition-in-selection.webm" />


## Import LRC Lyrics
- You can import lyrics in [LRC format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LRC_(file_format))
- TIP: Lyrics in LRC format can be found for example on [lyricsify.com](https://lyricsify.com/)
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/import-lrc-format.webm" />


## Edit Lyrics
- Double click a note or phrase to open its lyrics dialog
- Or use the right click context menu to open the lyrics dialog
- Switch to edit mode in the lyrics area to edit the lyrics of the whole song
    - NOTE: Only notes that have been assigned to a player (P1 or P2) are shown in the lyrics area
- TIP: You can split a note with space and semicolon when editing a note's lyrics

*Special characters*
- A `semicolon` can be used to separate syllables.
- A `space` is shown as circle and can be used to separate words.
- A `line break` is shown as arrow-left and can be used to separate phrases.
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/edit-lyrics.webm" />


## Pitch Detection
- Click the button in the left side bar to analyze the pitch of the vocals audio.
- Move notes to the detected pitch using the right click context menu on a note or phrase.
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/pitch-detection.webm" />


## Select Cover, Background, Video
- Click the preview of the cover, background, or video to change it
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/select-cover-background-video.webm" />


## Draw to Add Notes
- Select an empty range to deselect all notes
- Hold `Shift` while dragging to draw new notes
- TIP: The target layer for new notes can be changed in the settings
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/draw-to-add-notes.webm" />


## Button Tapping to Add Notes
- Start playback then press the corresponding button to add notes
- TIP: Reduce the playback speed for better accuracy
- TIP: The used button and pitch can be changed in the settings
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/button-tapping-to-add-notes.webm" />

## Button Tapping with Lyrics
- Configure lyrics that should be used during button tapping.
- TIP: Change the caret position in the text field to start at a different word in the lyrics.
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/button-tapping-to-add-notes-with-lyrics.webm" />

## Assign Notes to Player
- Assign selected notes to a player using the right click context menu
- NOTE: Only notes that have been assigned to a player are saved to the file!
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/assign-notes-to-player.webm" />


## Adjust Following Notes
- Enable this option to move following notes accordingly
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/adjust-following-notes.webm" />


## Note Layers
- You can hide / show the notes of a layer in the layer menu
- You can lock / unlock the notes of a layer in the layer menu. The notes of a locked layer can not be edited.
- You can select all the notes of a layer in the layer menu
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/note-layers.webm" />


## Play MIDI Sounds
- Hold `Ctrl` while you click on a note to preview its pitch
- Use the virtual piano to hear a MIDI sound of that pitch
- MIDI sounds during playback can be enabled / disabled in the settings
- TIP: MIDI sound during playback can be enabled / disabled per layer in the layer menu
- TIP: Configure a (negative) delay for MIDIs sound during playback in the settings to synchronize playback and MIDI sounds
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/midi-sounds.webm" />


## Import MIDI / KAR File
- You can import lyrics and notes from a MIDI file (aka. KAR file if the MIDI file contains lyrics)
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/import-midi-file.webm" />


## Fix Warnings and Errors
- Click on a warning / error to view its message
- Click on a warning / error in the menu to jump to its position
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/warning-and-error-markers.webm" />


## Change GAP (aka. Time to First Lyrics)
- Change the GAP (i.e. the time to first lyrics) using the right click context menu
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/set-gap.webm" />


## Change Medley Start and End
- Change the start and end of the song when used in a medley or as short song
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/set-medley-start-and-end.webm" />


## Change Video Offset
- Change the video offset by dragging left / right on the video preview
- Reset the video offset using the right click context menu on the video preview
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/video-offset.webm" />


## Navigate Position History
- Go to previous positions via `Alt+Left Arrow`
- Go to next positions via `Alt+Right Arrow`
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/navigate-position-history.webm" />


export default ({ children }) => (
    <MdxLayoutComponent additionalClasses="how-to-song-editor">{children}</MdxLayoutComponent>
);

Commit message:

how-to-song-editor: section about "create new song" dialog

pages/how-to-song-editor.mdx, after:

import MdxLayoutComponent from '../components/MdxLayoutComponent'
import TutorialVideo from '../components/TutorialVideo'

# Song Editor
Melody Mania includes an editor that can be used to create a sing-along version of any song.

The following shows how to use the editor.

## Create Song From Local Audio File
- Use the "Create New Song" dialog in the main menu to create a song from a local audio file.
    - This will create a new UltraStar txt file next to the audio file and run the AI tools
    (vocals isolation, speech recognition, pitch detection) for a quick start.
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/new-song-dialog.webm" />


## View Shortcuts and Controls
- The help dialog shows all available shortcuts and controls
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/view-controls-help.webm" />


## Split Audio to Isolate Vocals
- Click the button in the left side bar to split vocals audio and instrumental audio
- Afterwards, speech recognition and pitch detection can be performed on the vocals audio
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/split-audio.webm" />


## Change Playback Audio
- You can select which audio should be played: the original music, vocals, insturmental, or your microphone recording
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/change-playback-audio.webm" />


## Dictate Lyrics
- Configure a microphone and click the recording button
- Speak clearly in the microphone to dictate lyrics
- TIP: More speech recognition models are available for download [here](https://huggingface.co/ggerganov/whisper.cpp). As a rule of thumb, larger models are more accurate but need more time.
- TIP: Your recorded audio is shown in red in the overview bar at the bottom
- NOTE: The speech recognition models have not been trained on singing data. Thus, you may achieve better results by dictating lyrics and speaking clearly, without singing.
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/dictate-lyrics.webm" />


## Speech Recognition in Selection
- As alternative to dictating lyrics, you can run the speech recognition on the vocals audio
- Select a range or hit `Ctrl+A` to select all
- Click the button in the settings to do speech recognition on the last selected range
- NOTE: The speech recognition models have not been trained on singing data. Thus, you may achieve better results by dictating lyrics and speaking clearly, without singing.
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/speech-recognition-in-selection.webm" />


## Import LRC Lyrics
- You can import lyrics in [LRC format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LRC_(file_format))
- TIP: Lyrics in LRC format can be found for example on [lyricsify.com](https://lyricsify.com/)
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/import-lrc-format.webm" />


## Edit Lyrics
- Double click a note or phrase to open its lyrics dialog
- Or use the right click context menu to open the lyrics dialog
- Switch to edit mode in the lyrics area to edit the lyrics of the whole song
    - NOTE: Only notes that have been assigned to a player (P1 or P2) are shown in the lyrics area
- TIP: You can split a note with space and semicolon when editing a note's lyrics

*Special characters*
- A `semicolon` can be used to separate syllables.
- A `space` is shown as circle and can be used to separate words.
- A `line break` is shown as arrow-left and can be used to separate phrases.
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/edit-lyrics.webm" />


## Pitch Detection
- Click the button in the left side bar to analyze the pitch of the vocals audio.
- Move notes to the detected pitch using the right click context menu on a note or phrase.
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/pitch-detection.webm" />


## Select Cover, Background, Video
- Click the preview of the cover, background, or video to change it
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/select-cover-background-video.webm" />


## Draw to Add Notes
- Select an empty range to deselect all notes
- Hold `Shift` while dragging to draw new notes
- TIP: The target layer for new notes can be changed in the settings
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/draw-to-add-notes.webm" />


## Button Tapping to Add Notes
- Start playback then press the corresponding button to add notes
- TIP: Reduce the playback speed for better accuracy
- TIP: The used button and pitch can be changed in the settings
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/button-tapping-to-add-notes.webm" />

## Button Tapping with Lyrics
- Configure lyrics that should be used during button tapping.
- TIP: Change the caret position in the text field to start at a different word in the lyrics.
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/button-tapping-to-add-notes-with-lyrics.webm" />

## Assign Notes to Player
- Assign selected notes to a player using the right click context menu
- NOTE: Only notes that have been assigned to a player are saved to the file!
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/assign-notes-to-player.webm" />


## Adjust Following Notes
- Enable this option to move following notes accordingly
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/adjust-following-notes.webm" />


## Note Layers
- You can hide / show the notes of a layer in the layer menu
- You can lock / unlock the notes of a layer in the layer menu. The notes of a locked layer can not be edited.
- You can select all the notes of a layer in the layer menu
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/note-layers.webm" />


## Play MIDI Sounds
- Hold `Ctrl` while you click on a note to preview its pitch
- Use the virtual piano to hear a MIDI sound of that pitch
- MIDI sounds during playback can be enabled / disabled in the settings
- TIP: MIDI sound during playback can be enabled / disabled per layer in the layer menu
- TIP: Configure a (negative) delay for MIDIs sound during playback in the settings to synchronize playback and MIDI sounds
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/midi-sounds.webm" />


## Import MIDI / KAR File
- You can import lyrics and notes from a MIDI file (aka. KAR file if the MIDI file contains lyrics)
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/import-midi-file.webm" />


## Fix Warnings and Errors
- Click on a warning / error to view its message
- Click on a warning / error in the menu to jump to its position
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/warning-and-error-markers.webm" />


## Change GAP (aka. Time to First Lyrics)
- Change the GAP (i.e. the time to first lyrics) using the right click context menu
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/set-gap.webm" />


## Change Medley Start and End
- Change the start and end of the song when used in a medley or as short song
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/set-medley-start-and-end.webm" />


## Change Video Offset
- Change the video offset by dragging left / right on the video preview
- Reset the video offset using the right click context menu on the video preview
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/video-offset.webm" />


## Navigate Position History
- Go to previous positions via `Alt+Left Arrow`
- Go to next positions via `Alt+Right Arrow`
<TutorialVideo src="/videos/song-editor/navigate-position-history.webm" />


export default ({ children }) => (
    <MdxLayoutComponent additionalClasses="how-to-song-editor">{children}</MdxLayoutComponent>
);
