pages/how-to-steam-workshop.mdx, before:

import MdxLayoutComponent from '../components/MdxLayoutComponent'
import TutorialVideo from '../components/TutorialVideo'

# Steam Workshop
- Melody Mania integrates [Steam Workshop](https://steamcommunity.com/app/2394070/workshop/),
which enables users to create, share, and download user-generated content.

- Melody Mania supports custom [mods](/how-to-mods), themes, player profile images, and browser scripts
from Steam Workshop.

## <span id="how-to-use-workshop-items">How to Use Wokshop Items</span>
- Browse Steam Workshop items [here](https://steamcommunity.com/workshop/browse/?appid=2394070).
- Subscribe to items that you want to install.
- Your subscribed items will be downloaded when the game starts.
    - TIP: Steam saves downloaded Workshop items in `Steam/steamapps/workshop/content/APP_ID/WORKSHOP_ITEM_ID`, where the `APP_ID` of Melody Mania is 2394070.

## How to Create Workshop Items
- Creating a Workshop Item means uploading a folder,
  plus metadata like title, description, and a preview image.
- Navigate to the development options in Melody Mania and click the `Publish Workshop Item` button. This will open the upload dialog.
    - Select the folder that should be uploaded and fill the fields for the title, description, etc.
    - Click the `Publish` button to start the upload.
- NOTE: It may take few minutes before a new item appears on the Steam Workshop website.

## How to Edit Workshop Items
- You can only edit your own Workshop items, i.e., items that you have uploaded.
- You need to [subscribe and download](#how-to-use-workshop-items) an item first to edit it.
- Select the Workshop item to be edited in the upload dialog and set only the value of fields that you want to change.
    - The value of fields that have not been set will not be changed.

export default ({ children }) => (
    <MdxLayoutComponent>{children}</MdxLayoutComponent>
);

Commit message:

hot-to-steam-workshop: named subfolders that are scanned for content

pages/how-to-steam-workshop.mdx, after:

import MdxLayoutComponent from '../components/MdxLayoutComponent'
import TutorialVideo from '../components/TutorialVideo'

# Steam Workshop
- Melody Mania integrates [Steam Workshop](https://steamcommunity.com/app/2394070/workshop/),
which enables users to create, share, and download user-generated content.

- Melody Mania supports custom [mods](/how-to-mods), themes, player profile images, and browser scripts
from Steam Workshop.

## <span id="how-to-use-workshop-items">How to Use Wokshop Items</span>
- Browse Steam Workshop items [here](https://steamcommunity.com/workshop/browse/?appid=2394070).
- Subscribe to items that you want to install.
- Your subscribed items will be downloaded when the game starts.
    - TIP: Steam saves downloaded Workshop items in `Steam/steamapps/workshop/content/APP_ID/WORKSHOP_ITEM_ID`, where the `APP_ID` of Melody Mania is 2394070.

## How to Create Workshop Items
- Creating a Workshop item means uploading a folder,
  plus metadata like title, description, and a preview image.
- Melody Mania searches for content in the following subfolders of a Workshop item
    - `Mods` for [mods](/how-to-mods)
    - `Themes` for themes
    - `PlayerProfileImages` for player profile images
    - `WebViewScripts` for browser scripts
- Navigate to the development options in Melody Mania and click the `Publish Workshop Item` button. This will open the upload dialog.
    - Select the folder that should be uploaded and fill the fields for the title, description, etc.
    - Click the `Publish` button to start the upload.
- NOTE: It may take few minutes before a new item appears on the Steam Workshop website.

## How to Edit Workshop Items
- You can only edit your own Workshop items, i.e., items that you have uploaded.
- You need to [subscribe and download](#how-to-use-workshop-items) an item first to edit it.
- Select the Workshop item to be edited in the upload dialog and set only the value of fields that you want to change.
    - The value of fields that have not been set will not be changed.

export default ({ children }) => (
    <MdxLayoutComponent>{children}</MdxLayoutComponent>
);
